first we have uh been holding back and
we're in active conversations with
Israel about the provision of heavy uh
or high payload weapons uh large bombs
because of the concern that we have
about the effect these weapons can have
when they're used in a dense Urban
environment like Rafa we're discussing
that with Israel right now second what
the president said is that if Israel
goes in with a major military operation
Rafa uh in that case uh there are
certain systems that we will not provide
to Israel uh that would aid aid that
that effort because it's something that
we do not want to be part of given the
damage that it would do to civilians and
again uh not to achieve a durable
lasting effective result for Israel and
for its security that's what the
president said we've said that in uh
conversations with our Israeli Partners
our senior political analyst Maan
bashara he joins me here in our Doha
studio blinkin in that interview also
mentioned the Resurgence of Hamas I was
interested to see Maran he he talked
about how even with a fullscale assault
on Rafa there would still be thousands
of armed Hamas Fighters left and that
there was no plan for the day after is
the US increasingly disappointed with
Israel's military progress oh absolutely
absolutely it's been it's been
disappointed for a good number of weeks
if not months in fact ever since that
Fallout between uh President Biden and
prime minister Netanyahu back in
February it was clear that the United
States was not looking favorably at the
war while continuously supporting um the
war um I think it's clear for uh
Americans including the American
establishment that there is no ending of
Hamas I think um there's also becoming
clear that the day after will be perhaps
an Insurgency in Gaza or a no man's land
which will eventually produce an
Insurgency of sort or chaos and so on so
whatever the Israelis are looking to do
in Gaza is not working and whatever they
think of as a day after it's not working
and the United States with a bit of a
distance with a bit of experience a bit
of history is able to advise Israel
about why they needed to wind this war
down several weeks if not months ago and
why they need to accept the ceasefire
and why they need to start thinking
about the day after and why they need
not anger Arab neighbors and so on and
so forth well it still certainly sounds
like the
has Faith or or certainly is committed
to the negotiations around a ceasefire
what's your reading of of how that's
going given what we're seeing now in
Rafa it's not going but certain not
going anywhere and clearly from what
secretary blinkin has said it's like as
if there there are no talks because he
keeps talking about Hamas giving up the
captives if this there is no deal that
was almost signed if it weren't for uh
Israeli rejection and eventually uh
blinking blessing of Israeli rejection
and hence once again we go back to
negotiat look in the end of the day
there's something about blink's approach
to this issue which I think sometimes
could be Nuance with what Biden says
Biden as the president apparently he has
a bit of a leeway he can sometimes talk
in more cander he is kind of older
sometimes words slip like indiscriminate
Israel indiscriminately bombs Gaza right
or it cannot there is a red line now
this is interesting again Biden says Red
Line linoln says what we don't do we
don't have red lines for Israel I think
that says a lot about his
psyche I think every time anyone says
red blink sees orange or yellow or green
or something right he he doesn't see
that there could be uh red lines for
Israel he doesn't right and second he
doesn't see that there's any double
standards with Israel he sees that
there's only one Israeli standard that's
the American Standard when it comes to
Gaza that's why in the report when they
talk about the the in idents not the
patterns not the patterns of human
rights violations of war crimes of
unraveling genocide when he talks about
incident he talks but the Israelis are
investigating it hence what why should
we you know intervene when the Israelis
themselves AR doing it as if the Israeli
standards of investigating themselves
and their own crimes is good enough for
the United States to continue to supply
2,000 weapons which they are still
reviewing and considering doing M Bashar
will'll leave it there for now thank you
for joining us
again make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer